geras blogas
aukštas žemas
aukštai žemai
ilgas trumpas
juodas baltas
kietas minkštas
skystas tirštas
artimas tolimas
gilus seklus
duoti imti
šviesa tamsa
stumti traukti
tyliai garsiai
meilė neapykanta
gėris blogis
žemyn aukštyn
sausas šlapias
kilti leistis
tiesa melas
aiškus miglotas
aklas visaregis
aktyvus pasyvus
amžinas laikinas
ankstus vėlus;vėlyvas
anksti vėlai
pilnas tuščias
apkloti nukloti
stambus smulkus
apsišvietęs bemokslis
apsiginti užpulti
apšviesti užtamsinti
apvalus kampuotas
apžėlęs plikas
asmeninis bendras
atidus išsiblaškęs
tylus garsus
blaivus girtas
brangus pigus
civilizuotas laukinis
civilinis kariškas
darbas poilsis
darbingas neįgalus
dažnas retas
dažniau rečiau
retai dažnai
detalus bendras
didis menkas
didžiulis mažytis
diena naktis
disciplina anarchija
dorybė yda
dramblys pelė
dosnus gobšus
drungnas vėsus
dvasiškas kūniškas
džiūgauti ašaroti
džiaugsmas apmaudas
džiugus liūdnas
erdvus ankštas
universalus specialus
šaltas karštas;šiltas
taika karas
saldus kartus
racionalus iracionalus
radikalus konservatyvus
ramus irzlus
objektyvus subjektyvus
nacionalinis internacionalinis
narsus baikštus
naudingas kenksmingas
mandagus stačiokiškas
kairė dešinė
jaukus baugus
harmonija chaosas
žioplas akylas
žemuma aukštuma
mažinti didinti
sumažinti padidinti
mažintas didintas
pabaiga pradžia
vakaras rytas
pirmas paskutinis
greitas lėtas
greitasis lėtasis
greitai lėtai
visada niekada
lengvas sunkus;sudėtingas
lengva sunku;sudėtinga
lengvai sunkiai;sudėtingai
dauguma mažuma
vasara žiema
ruduo pavasaris
atgal pirmyn
nugalėti pralaimėti
stiprus silpnas
pergalė pralaimėjimas
šviesus tamsus
teisingumas klaidingumas
teisingas klaidingas
priešas draugas
ugnis vanduo
mirti gimti
mirštantis gimstantis
bukumas intelektualumas
vaikinas mergina
ryškus blyškus
ryškiai blyškiai
rašytinis žodinis
žmona vyras
didelis mažas
anksčiau vėliau
sūnus dukra
mažai daug
laimėti pralošti;pralaimėti